
# Working with WordprocessingML tables (Open XML SDK)
***Applies to:** Office 2013 | Open XML*

This topic discusses the Open XML SDK 2.5 <span sdata="cer"
target="T:DocumentFormat.OpenXml.Wordprocessing.Table"><span
class="nolink">Table</span></span> class and how it relates to the
Office Open XML File Formats WordprocessingML schema.

## Tables in WordprocessingML

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following text from the [ISO/IEC
29500](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkId=194337) specification
introduces the Open XML WordprocessingML table element.

Another type of block-level content in WordprocessingML, A table is a
set of paragraphs (and other block-level content) arranged in rows and
columns.

Tables in WordprocessingML are defined via the tbl element, which is
analogous to the HTML \<table\> tag. The table element specifies the
location of a table present in the document.

A tbl element has two elements that define its properties: tblPr, which
defines the set of table-wide properties (such as style and width), and
tblGrid, which defines the grid layout of the table. A tbl element can
also contain an arbitrary non-zero number of rows, where each row is
specified with a tr element. Each tr element can contain an arbitrary
non-zero number of cells, where each cell is specified with a tc
element.

© ISO/IEC29500: 2008.

The following table lists some of the most common Open XML SDK classes
used when working with tables.

<table>
<colgroup>
<col width="50%" />
<col width="50%" />
</colgroup>
<thead>
<tr class="header">
<th align="left"><p>XML element</p></th>
<th align="left"><p>Open XML SDK 2.5 Class</p></th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td align="left"><p>**gridCol**</p></td>
<td align="left"><p>GridColumn</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td align="left"><p>**tblGrid**</p></td>
<td align="left"><p>TableGrid</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td align="left"><p>**tblPr**</p></td>
<td align="left"><p>TableProperties</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td align="left"><p>**tc**</p></td>
<td align="left"><p>TableCell</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td align="left"><p>**tr**</p></td>
<td align="left"><p>TableRow</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

### Open XML SDK 2.5 Table Class

The Open XML SDK 2.5<span sdata="cer"
target="T:DocumentFormat.OpenXml.Wordprocessing.Table"><span
class="nolink">Table</span></span> class represents the (\<<span
class="keyword">tbl</span>\>) element defined in the Open XML File
Format schema for WordprocessingML documents as discussed above. Use a
**Table**object to manipulate an individual
table in a WordprocessingML document.

### TableProperties Class

The Open XML SDK 2.5<span sdata="cer"
target="T:DocumentFormat.OpenXml.Wordprocessing.TableProperties"><span
class="nolink">TableProperties</span></span> class represents the
(\<**tblPr**\>) element defined in the Open XML
File Format schema for WordprocessingML documents. The \<<span
class="keyword">tblPr</span>\> element defines table-wide properties for
a table. Use a **TableProperties** object to
set table-wide properties for a table in a WordprocessingML document.

### TableGrid Class

The Open XML SDK 2.5<span sdata="cer"
target="T:DocumentFormat.OpenXml.Wordprocessing.TableGrid"><span
class="nolink">TableGrid</span></span> class represents the (\<<span
class="keyword">tblGrid</span>\>) element defined in the Open XML File
Format schema for WordprocessingML documents. In conjunction with grid
column (\<**gridCol**\>) child elements, the
\<**tblGrid**\> element defines the columns for
a table and specifies the default width of table cells in the columns.
Use a **TableGrid** object to define the
columns in a table in a WordprocessingML document.

### GridColumn Class

The Open XML SDK 2.5<span sdata="cer"
target="T:DocumentFormat.OpenXml.Wordprocessing.GridColumn"><span
class="nolink">GridColumn</span></span> class represents the grid column
(\<**gridCol**\>) element defined in the Open
XML File Format schema for WordprocessingML documents. The \<<span
class="keyword">gridCol</span>\> element is a child element of the
\<**tblGrid**\> element and defines a single
column in a table in a WordprocessingML document. Use the <span
class="keyword">GridColumn</span> class to manipulate an individual
column in a WordprocessingML document.

### TableRow Class

The Open XML SDK 2.5<span sdata="cer"
target="T:DocumentFormat.OpenXml.Wordprocessing.TableRow"><span
class="nolink">TableRow</span></span> class represents the table row
(\<**tr**\>) element defined in the Open XML
File Format schema for WordprocessingML documents. The \<<span
class="keyword">tr</span>\> element defines a row in a table in a
WordprocessingML document, analogous to the \<<span
class="keyword">tr</span>\> tag in HTML. A table row can also have
formatting applied to it using a table row properties (\<<span
class="keyword">trPr</span>\>) element. The Open XML SDK 2.5<span
sdata="cer"
target="T:DocumentFormat.OpenXml.Wordprocessing.TableRowProperties"><span
class="nolink">TableRowProperties</span></span> class represents the
\<**trPr**\> element.

### TableCell Class

The Open XML SDK 2.5<span sdata="cer"
target="T:DocumentFormat.OpenXml.Wordprocessing.TableCell"><span
class="nolink">TableCell</span></span> class represents the table cell
(\<**tc**\>) element defined in the Open XML
File Format schema for WordprocessingML documents. The \<<span
class="keyword">tc</span>\> element defines a cell in a table in a
WordprocessingML document, analogous to the \<<span
class="keyword">td</span>\> tag in HTML. A table cell can also have
formatting applied to it using a table cell properties (\<<span
class="keyword">tcPr</span>\>) element. The Open XML SDK 2.5<span
sdata="cer"
target="T:DocumentFormat.OpenXml.Wordprocessing.TableCellProperties"><span
class="nolink">TableCellProperties</span></span> class represents the
\<**tcPr**\> element.

### Open XML SDK Code Example

The following code inserts a table with 1 row and 3 columns into a
document.

C\# 

    public static void InsertTableInDoc(string filepath)
    {
        // Open a WordprocessingDocument for editing using the filepath.
        using (WordprocessingDocument wordprocessingDocument =
             WordprocessingDocument.Open(filepath, true))
        {
            // Assign a reference to the existing document body.
            Body body = wordprocessingDocument.MainDocumentPart.Document.Body;

            // Create a table.
            Table tbl = new Table();

            // Set the style and width for the table.
            TableProperties tableProp = new TableProperties();
            TableStyle tableStyle = new TableStyle() { Val = "TableGrid" };

            // Make the table width 100% of the page width.
            TableWidth tableWidth = new TableWidth() { Width = "5000", Type = TableWidthUnitValues.Pct };
            
            // Apply
            tableProp.Append(tableStyle, tableWidth);
            tbl.AppendChild(tableProp);

            // Add 3 columns to the table.
            TableGrid tg = new TableGrid(new GridColumn(), new GridColumn(), new GridColumn());
            tbl.AppendChild(tg);
            
            // Create 1 row to the table.
            TableRow tr1 = new TableRow();

            // Add a cell to each column in the row.
            TableCell tc1 = new TableCell(new Paragraph(new Run(new Text("1"))));
            TableCell tc2 = new TableCell(new Paragraph(new Run(new Text("2"))));
            TableCell tc3 = new TableCell(new Paragraph(new Run(new Text("3"))));
            tr1.Append(tc1, tc2, tc3);
            
            // Add row to the table.
            tbl.AppendChild(tr1);

            // Add the table to the document
            body.AppendChild(tbl);
        }
    }

Visual Basic 

    Public Sub InsertTableInDoc(ByVal filepath As String)
        ' Open a WordprocessingDocument for editing using the filepath.
        Using wordprocessingDocument As WordprocessingDocument = _
            WordprocessingDocument.Open(filepath, True)
            ' Assign a reference to the existing document body.
            Dim body As Body = wordprocessingDocument.MainDocumentPart.Document.Body

            ' Create a table.
            Dim tbl As New Table()

            ' Set the style and width for the table.
            Dim tableProp As New TableProperties()
            Dim tableStyle As New TableStyle() With {.Val = "TableGrid"}

            ' Make the table width 100% of the page width.
            Dim tableWidth As New TableWidth() With {.Width = "5000", .Type = TableWidthUnitValues.Pct}

            ' Apply
            tableProp.Append(tableStyle, tableWidth)
            tbl.AppendChild(tableProp)

            ' Add 3 columns to the table.
            Dim tg As New TableGrid(New GridColumn(), New GridColumn(), New GridColumn())
            tbl.AppendChild(tg)

            ' Create 1 row to the table.
            Dim tr1 As New TableRow()

            ' Add a cell to each column in the row.
            Dim tc1 As New TableCell(New Paragraph(New Run(New Text("1"))))
            Dim tc2 As New TableCell(New Paragraph(New Run(New Text("2"))))
            Dim tc3 As New TableCell(New Paragraph(New Run(New Text("3"))))
            tr1.Append(tc1, tc2, tc3)

            ' Add row to the table.
            tbl.AppendChild(tr1)

            ' Add the table to the document
            body.AppendChild(tbl)
        End Using
    End Sub

When this code is run, the following XML is written to the
WordprocessingML document specified in the preceding code.

<span codelanguage="xmlLang"></span>
XML 

    <w:tbl>
      <w:tblPr>
        <w:tblStyle w:val="TableGrid" />
        <w:tblW w:w="5000"
                w:type="pct" />
      </w:tblPr>
      <w:tblGrid>
        <w:gridCol />
        <w:gridCol />
        <w:gridCol />
      </w:tblGrid>
      <w:tr>
        <w:tc>
          <w:p>
            <w:r>
              <w:t>1</w:t>
            </w:r>
          </w:p>
        </w:tc>
        <w:tc>
          <w:p>
            <w:r>
              <w:t>2</w:t>
            </w:r>
          </w:p>
        </w:tc>
        <w:tc>
          <w:p>
            <w:r>
              <w:t>3</w:t>
            </w:r>
          </w:p>
        </w:tc>
      </w:tr>
    </w:tbl>

## See also

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

#### Concepts

<span sdata="link">[About the Open XML SDK 2.5 for
Office](620e86b5-49f2-43dc-85d4-9c7456c09552.htm)</span>

<span sdata="link">[Structure of a WordprocessingML document (Open XML
SDK)](03636fa2-be44-4e8d-9c26-7d38415bb459.htm)</span>

<span sdata="link">[Working with paragraphs (Open XML
SDK)](8a9117f7-066e-409c-8681-a26610c0eede.htm)</span>

<span sdata="link">[Working with runs (Open XML
SDK)](1fbc6d30-bfe4-4b2b-8fd8-0c5a400d1e03.htm)</span>




