
# How to: Add a new document part that receives a relationship ID to a package (Open XML SDK)
***Applies to:** Office 2013 | Open XML*

This topic shows how to use the classes in the Open XML SDK 2.5 for
Office to add a document part (file) that receives a relationship <span
class="parameter" sdata="paramReference">Id</span> parameter for a word
processing document.

The following assembly directives are required to compile the code in
this topic.

C\# 

    using System.IO;
    using DocumentFormat.OpenXml;
    using DocumentFormat.OpenXml.Packaging;
    using DocumentFormat.OpenXml.Wordprocessing;
    using System.Xml;

Visual Basic 

    Imports System.IO
    Imports DocumentFormat.OpenXml
    Imports DocumentFormat.OpenXml.Packaging
    Imports DocumentFormat.OpenXml.Wordprocessing
    Imports System.Xml

## Packages and Document Parts

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

An Open XML document is stored as a package, whose format is defined by
[ISO/IEC 29500-2](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkId=194337). The
package can have multiple parts with relationships between them. The
relationship between parts controls the category of the document. A
document can be defined as a word-processing document if its
package-relationship item contains a relationship to a main document
part. If its package-relationship item contains a relationship to a
presentation part it can be defined as a presentation document. If its
package-relationship item contains a relationship to a workbook part, it
is defined as a spreadsheet document. In this how-to topic, you will use
a word-processing document package.

## The Structure of a WordProcessingML Document

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The basic document structure of a <span
class="keyword">WordProcessingML</span> document consists of the <span
class="keyword">document</span> and **body**
elements, followed by one or more block level elements such as <span
class="keyword">p</span>, which represents a paragraph. A paragraph
contains one or more **r** elements. The <span
class="keyword">r</span> stands for run, which is a region of text with
a common set of properties, such as formatting. A run contains one or
more **t** elements. The <span
class="keyword">t</span> element contains a range of text. The following
code example shows the **WordprocessingML**
markup for a document that contains the text "Example text."

<span codelanguage="xmlLang"></span>
XML 

    <w:document xmlns:w="http://schemas.openxmlformats.org/wordprocessingml/2006/main">
      <w:body>
        <w:p>
          <w:r>
            <w:t>Example text.</w:t>
          </w:r>
        </w:p>
      </w:body>
    </w:document>

Using the Open XML SDK 2.5, you can create document structure and
content using strongly-typed classes that correspond to <span
class="keyword">WordprocessingML</span> elements. You will find these
classes in the <span sdata="cer"
target="N:DocumentFormat.OpenXml.Wordprocessing"><span
class="nolink">DocumentFormat.OpenXml.Wordprocessing</span></span>
namespace. The following table lists the class names of the classes that
correspond to the **document**, <span
class="keyword">body</span>, **p**, <span
class="keyword">r</span>, and **t** elements.

<table>
<colgroup>
<col width="33%" />
<col width="33%" />
<col width="33%" />
</colgroup>
<thead>
<tr class="header">
<th align="left"><p>WordprocessingML Element</p></th>
<th align="left"><p>Open XML SDK 2.5 Class</p></th>
<th align="left"><p>Description</p></th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td align="left"><p>document</p></td>
<td align="left"><p><span sdata="cer" target="T:DocumentFormat.OpenXml.Wordprocessing.Document"><span class="nolink">Document</span></span></p></td>
<td align="left"><p>The root element for the main document part.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td align="left"><p>body</p></td>
<td align="left"><p><span sdata="cer" target="T:DocumentFormat.OpenXml.Wordprocessing.Body"><span class="nolink">Body</span></span></p></td>
<td align="left"><p>The container for the block level structures such as paragraphs, tables, annotations and others specified in the ISO/IEC 29500 specification.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td align="left"><p>p</p></td>
<td align="left"><p><span sdata="cer" target="T:DocumentFormat.OpenXml.Wordprocessing.Paragraph"><span class="nolink">Paragraph</span></span></p></td>
<td align="left"><p>A paragraph.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td align="left"><p>r</p></td>
<td align="left"><p><span sdata="cer" target="T:DocumentFormat.OpenXml.Wordprocessing.Run"><span class="nolink">Run</span></span></p></td>
<td align="left"><p>A run.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td align="left"><p>t</p></td>
<td align="left"><p><span sdata="cer" target="T:DocumentFormat.OpenXml.Wordprocessing.Text"><span class="nolink">Text</span></span></p></td>
<td align="left"><p>A range of text.</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

## How the Sample Code Works

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The sample code, in this how-to, starts by passing in a parameter that
represents the path to the Word document. It then creates a document as
a **WordprocessingDocument** object.

C\# 

    public static void AddNewPart(string document)
    {
        // Create a new word processing document.
        WordprocessingDocument wordDoc = 
           WordprocessingDocument.Create(document,
           WordprocessingDocumentType.Document);

Visual Basic 

    Public Shared Sub AddNewPart(ByVal document As String)
        ' Create a new word processing document.
        Dim wordDoc As WordprocessingDocument = _
        WordprocessingDocument.Create(document, WordprocessingDocumentType.Document)

It then adds the **MainDocumentPart** part in
the new word processing document, with the relationship ID, <span
class="keyword">rId1</span>. It also adds the <span
class="keyword">CustomFilePropertiesPart</span> part and a <span
class="keyword">CoreFilePropertiesPart</span> in the new word processing
document.

C\# 

    // Add the MainDocumentPart part in the new word processing document.
    MainDocumentPart mainDocPart = wordDoc.AddNewPart<MainDocumentPart>
    ("application/vnd.openxmlformats-officedocument.wordprocessingml.document.main+xml", "rId1");
    mainDocPart.Document = new Document();

    // Add the CustomFilePropertiesPart part in the new word processing document.
    CustomFilePropertiesPart customFilePropPart = wordDoc.AddCustomFilePropertiesPart();
    customFilePropPart.Properties = new DocumentFormat.OpenXml.CustomProperties.Properties();

    // Add the CoreFilePropertiesPart part in the new word processing document.
    CoreFilePropertiesPart coreFilePropPart = wordDoc.AddCoreFilePropertiesPart();

    using (XmlTextWriter writer = 
    new XmlTextWriter(coreFilePropPart.GetStream(FileMode.Create), System.Text.Encoding.UTF8))
    {
        writer.WriteRaw("<?xml version=\"1.0\" encoding=\"UTF-
    8\"?>\r\n<cp:coreProperties xmlns:cp=\
    "http://schemas.openxmlformats.org/package/2006/metadata/core-properties\"></cp:coreProperties>");
        writer.Flush();
    }

Visual Basic 

    ' Add the MainDocumentPart part in the new word processing document.
    Dim mainDocPart As MainDocumentPart = wordDoc.AddNewPart(Of MainDocumentPart) _
    ("application/vnd.openxmlformats-officedocument.wordprocessingml.document.main+xml", "rId1") _
    mainDocPart.Document = New Document()

    ' Add the CustomFilePropertiesPart part in the new word processing document.
    Dim customFilePropPart As CustomFilePropertiesPart = wordDoc.AddCustomFilePropertiesPart()
    customFilePropPart.Properties = New DocumentFormat.OpenXml.CustomProperties.Properties()

    ' Add the CoreFilePropertiesPart part in the new word processing document.
    Dim coreFilePropPart As CoreFilePropertiesPart = wordDoc.AddCoreFilePropertiesPart()

    Using writer As New XmlTextWriter(coreFilePropPart.GetStream(FileMode.Create), System.Text.Encoding.UTF8)
        writer.WriteRaw("<?xml version=""1.0"" encoding=""UTF-8""?>" _
    & vbCrLf & "<cp:coreProperties xmlns:cp=""http://schemas.openxmlformats.org/package/2006/metadata/core-properties""></cp:coreProperties>")
        writer.Flush()
    End Using

The code then adds the <span
class="keyword">DigitalSignatureOriginPart</span> part, the <span
class="keyword">ExtendedFilePropertiesPart</span> part, and the <span
class="keyword">ThumbnailPart</span> part in the new word processing
document with realtionship IDs rId4, rId5, and rId6. And then it closes
the **wordDoc** object.

C\# 

    // Add the DigitalSignatureOriginPart part in the new word processing document.
    wordDoc.AddNewPart<DigitalSignatureOriginPart>("rId4");

    // Add the ExtendedFilePropertiesPart part in the new word processing document.**
    ExtendedFilePropertiesPart extendedFilePropPart = wordDoc.AddNewPart<ExtendedFilePropertiesPart>("rId5");
    extendedFilePropPart.Properties = new DocumentFormat.OpenXml.ExtendedProperties.Properties();

    // Add the ThumbnailPart part in the new word processing document.
    wordDoc.AddNewPart<ThumbnailPart>("image/jpeg", "rId6");

    wordDoc.Close();

Visual Basic 

    ' Add the DigitalSignatureOriginPart part in the new word processing document.
    wordDoc.AddNewPart(Of DigitalSignatureOriginPart)("rId4")

    ' Add the ExtendedFilePropertiesPart part in the new word processing document.**
    Dim extendedFilePropPart As ExtendedFilePropertiesPart = wordDoc.AddNewPart(Of ExtendedFilePropertiesPart)("rId5")
    extendedFilePropPart.Properties = New DocumentFormat.OpenXml.ExtendedProperties.Properties()

    ' Add the ThumbnailPart part in the new word processing document.
    wordDoc.AddNewPart(Of ThumbnailPart)("image/jpeg", "rId6")

    wordDoc.Close()

<table>
<colgroup>
<col width="100%" />
</colgroup>
<thead>
<tr class="header">
<th align="left">**Note**</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td align="left"><p>The **AddNewPart&lt;T&gt;</span> method creates a relationship from the current document part to the new document part. This method returns the new document part. Also, you can use the <span sdata="cer" target="M:DocumentFormat.OpenXml.Packaging.DataPart.FeedData(System.IO.Stream)"><span class="nolink">DataPart.FeedData</span>** method to fill the document part.</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

## Sample Code

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following code, adds a new document part that contains custom XML
from an external file and then populates the document part. You can call
the method **AddNewPart** by using a call like
the following code example.

C\# 

    string document = @"C:\Users\Public\Documents\MyPkg1.docx";
    AddNewPart(document);

Visual Basic 

    Dim document As String = "C:\Users\Public\Documents\MyPkg1.docx"
    AddNewPart(document)

The following is the complete code example in both C\# and Visual Basic.

C\# 

    public static void AddNewPart(string document)
    {
        // Create a new word processing document.
        WordprocessingDocument wordDoc =
           WordprocessingDocument.Create(document,
           WordprocessingDocumentType.Document);

        // Add the MainDocumentPart part in the new word processing document.
        var mainDocPart = wordDoc.AddNewPart<MainDocumentPart>
    ("application/vnd.openxmlformats-officedocument.wordprocessingml.document.main+xml", "rId1");
        mainDocPart.Document = new Document();

        // Add the CustomFilePropertiesPart part in the new word processing document.
        var customFilePropPart = wordDoc.AddCustomFilePropertiesPart();
        customFilePropPart.Properties = new DocumentFormat.OpenXml.CustomProperties.Properties();

        // Add the CoreFilePropertiesPart part in the new word processing document.
        var coreFilePropPart = wordDoc.AddCoreFilePropertiesPart();
        using (XmlTextWriter writer = new 
    XmlTextWriter(coreFilePropPart.GetStream(FileMode.Create), System.Text.Encoding.UTF8))
        {
            writer.WriteRaw("<?xml version=
    \"1.0\" encoding=\"UTF-8\"?>\r\n<cp:coreProperties xmlns:cp=\
    "http://schemas.openxmlformats.org/package/2006/metadata/core-properties\"></cp:coreProperties>");
            writer.Flush();
        }

        // Add the DigitalSignatureOriginPart part in the new word processing document.
        wordDoc.AddNewPart<DigitalSignatureOriginPart>("rId4");

        // Add the ExtendedFilePropertiesPart part in the new word processing document.
        var extendedFilePropPart = wordDoc.AddNewPart<ExtendedFilePropertiesPart>("rId5");
        extendedFilePropPart.Properties = 
    new DocumentFormat.OpenXml.ExtendedProperties.Properties();

        // Add the ThumbnailPart part in the new word processing document.
        wordDoc.AddNewPart<ThumbnailPart>("image/jpeg", "rId6");

        wordDoc.Close();
    }

Visual Basic 

    Public Sub AddNewPart(ByVal document As String)
        ' Create a new word processing document.
        Dim wordDoc As WordprocessingDocument = _
    WordprocessingDocument.Create(document, WordprocessingDocumentType.Document)
        
        ' Add the MainDocumentPart part in the new word processing document.
        Dim mainDocPart = wordDoc.AddNewPart(Of MainDocumentPart) _
    ("application/vnd.openxmlformats-officedocument.wordprocessingml.document.main+xml", "rId1")
        mainDocPart.Document = New Document()
        
        ' Add the CustomFilePropertiesPart part in the new word processing document.
        Dim customFilePropPart = wordDoc.AddCustomFilePropertiesPart()
        customFilePropPart.Properties = New DocumentFormat.OpenXml.CustomProperties.Properties()
        
        ' Add the CoreFilePropertiesPart part in the new word processing document.
        Dim coreFilePropPart = wordDoc.AddCoreFilePropertiesPart()
        Using writer As New XmlTextWriter(coreFilePropPart.GetStream(FileMode.Create), _
    System.Text.Encoding.UTF8)
            writer.WriteRaw( _
    "<?xml version=""1.0"" encoding=""UTF-8""?>" & vbCr & vbLf & _
    "<cp:coreProperties xmlns:cp=""http://schemas.openxmlformats.org/package/2006/metadata/core-properties""></cp:coreProperties>")
            writer.Flush()
        End Using
        
        ' Add the DigitalSignatureOriginPart part in the new word processing document.
        wordDoc.AddNewPart(Of DigitalSignatureOriginPart)("rId4")
        
        ' Add the ExtendedFilePropertiesPart part in the new word processing document.
        Dim extendedFilePropPart = wordDoc.AddNewPart(Of ExtendedFilePropertiesPart)("rId5")
        extendedFilePropPart.Properties = _
    New DocumentFormat.OpenXml.ExtendedProperties.Properties()
        
        ' Add the ThumbnailPart part in the new word processing document.
        wordDoc.AddNewPart(Of ThumbnailPart)("image/jpeg", "rId6")
        
        wordDoc.Close()
    End Sub

## See also

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

#### Other resources

[Open XML SDK 2.5 class library
reference](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/36c8a76e-ce1b-5959-7e85-5d77db7f46d6(Office.15).aspx)




